In the previous video, we already add 1 new router
to the topology, so now we have 3 router here.
Next in this video, we are going to configure ospf
so all pc will able to communicate each others.
Because for now pc 1 and pc 2 should not able
to communicate with pc 3. Let’s test it.
Pc 2 to pc 3, failed, test again, still failed,
pc 1 to pc 3, failed, test again, still failed.
Okay so now pc 1 and pc 2 can
not communicate with pc 3.
This is why we need to configure an ospf.
The question is, where we need
to add ospf configuration?
Here in router 1, we don’t add any ip address,
so there is no new connected network,
this is means we don’t need to
add any configuration on router 1.
In the router 2, we add new ip address, which
is fa1/0, the ip address is 10.20.20.1/30,
so we have new connected network here,
which is 10.20.20.0/30 connected to fa1/0.
Because router 2 have new connected network,
so we will need to add new configuration here.
And last router 3, we don’t configure
ospf yet, so absolutely we will need
to add ospf configuration here. Let’s
write the connected network of router 3.
Router3 should have 2 connected network,
10.20.20.0/30 connected to fa0/0, and
192.168.3.0/24 connected to fa0/1.
Okay now let’s configure ospf. Let’s
start with router 2. Remember that here
we use ospf process id 2, if you forgot the ospf
process id, you can check it first, do show run,
here we can see that we use process id 2.
So here router ospf 2, next
let’s advertise the new network,
network 10.20.20.0 and then the
wildcard bits. Here we use prefix /30,
and the subnetmask for
prefix /30 is 255.255.255.252,
let’s calculate the wildcard bits,
255.255.255.255 minus by subnetmask .
255 minus by 252 is 3, 255 minus by 255 0, 255
minus by 255 0 and 255 minus by 255 is also 0.
So for prefix /30, the wildcard bits is
0.0.0.3. Let’s back to the configuration.
Here let’s put the wildcard
bits, 0.0.0.3. and then area 0.
Okay now we have done for router 2,
next let’s configure router 3.
Router ospf and then the process id, you
are free to use anything, but in this case,
let’s say we will use 3. And then next,
let’s advertise the connected network.
Network 10.20.20.0 and the wildcard bits
for prefix /30 is 0.0.0.3 and then area 0.
Next let’s advertise the
network that connected to pc 3,
so network 192.168.3.0 wildcard bits for
prefix /24 is 0.0.0.255 and then area 0.
Okay now we have done configuring ospf
on router 2 and router 3. Let’s check it,
First, let’s see the routing table on router 1,
enable, show ip route. Here we can see
that router 1 have route to the pc 3,
and this route is added automatically
by ospf. Let’s also check on router2,
here we can see that router 2 also have route
to pc 3 automatically. Here the label is O,
this is means ospf.
Let’s also check on router 3, do show ip route,
here we can see that on router 3 also
have route to pc 1 and pc 2 automatically.
So for now pc 1, pc 2, and pc 3 should be
able to communicate each others. Let’s try.
Pc 1 to pc 2, success, pc 2 to pc 3,
failed, test again, okay here success.
Okay so now we have done
configuring ospf on 3 router.
I think enough for this video
Thank you for watching and see you on the next video.